---
title: Technical Information for Further Testing
layout: default
parent: User Guide
nav_order: 11
---

# Technical Information for Further Testing

1. If all cells in the first panel are reactive and the autocontrol is negative,
   try chemically treated screen cells and see if this alters the reactivity in
   any way. Chemical treatment of red cells includes: enzymes, DTT, AET or CDP
   (chloroquine diphosphate). Methods and information on obtaining any of the
   products required, can be found in the _American Red Cross Immunohematology
   Methods and Procedures_, D. Mallory, ed. Selecting 2 or 3 cells from the
   panel, or using the screen cells, will save time, save plasma and still
   provide new information. If the information is that nothing changed, go to
   step 2.

[More information on the actions of specific chemicals is listed in step 2,
(iii).]

2. If all cells in the first panel tested are reactive and the auto control is
   negative, perform a common phenotype on the patient&#39;s red cells (patient
   must not have been transfused in the preceding 90 days). Blood group systems
   to include Rh, Kell, Duffy, Kidd and MNS. Select a cell from any of the
   panels or screen cells in your inventory that is negative for the same
   antigens the patient lacks and test it. This is referred to as running a
   phenotype matched cell.

EXAMPLE: PATIENT D+C+E-c+e+, K-, Fy (a+b-), Jk(a-b+), M+N+S-s+.

POSSIBLE MATCHES: D-C-E-c+e+, K-, Fy(a-b-), Jk(a-b+), M-N+S-s+

D+C+E-c-e+, K-, Fy(a+b-), Jk(a-b+), M+N-S-s

i) If the phenotype matched cell does not react with the patient&#39;s plasma,
select a panel of red cells based on one example of each antigen to be excluded
per cell.

EXAMPLE: FOR THE PATIENT LISTED ABOVE THE SELECTION CRITERIA

WOULD BE:

CELL 1 E+, K-, Fy(b-), Jk(a-), S-.

CELL 2 E-, K+, Fy(b-), Jk(a-), S-.

CELL 3 E-, K-, Fy(b+), Jk(a-), S-.

CELL 4 E-, K-, Fy(b-), Jk(a+), S-.

CELL 5 E-, K-, Fy(b-), Jk(a-), S+.

This will confirm or exclude which antibody(ies) to the common antigens the
patient has formed and what is left to form in the future.

ii) If the phenotypically matched cell(s) is reactive with the patient&#39;s
plasma and the

autocontrol is negative, the most probable cause is an antibody to a high
frequency antigen.

Use Antigen Plus to select any examples of high frequency antigen-negative red
cells

in your cell library. I.e... At(a-), k-, Kp(b-), Js(b-) etc.

iii) If you have a limited rare cell library or failed to obtain a negative
reaction with the high

frequency antigen-negative red cells available, consider that various red cell
treatments which

modify or destroy certain antigens on red cells can also be useful. DTT/AET
treatment will destroy: Kell (not Kx), Lutheran, Knopps/McCoy, Cartwright,
Cromer, Dombrock, Auberger, JMH and Lwa. Gerbich is destroyed by DTT but not
AET. ENZYMES (papain, ficin, trypsin, bromelin) will remove: Duffy, MNS, Chido,
Rogers, JMH, Gerbich, Gilfeather, Xga, Pr, Vw, Cartwright, Mia, Cla, Jea, Nya
and most Ena. Chloroquine diphosphate (CDP) will destroy Bg and class I HLA
antigens.

3. If all cells in the first panel tested are reactive and the auto control is
   positive, do a direct antiglobulin test (DAT) on the patient&#39;s cells
   before doing further serum testing.

i) If the DAT is positive, a warm autoantibody should be suspected and may hide
underlying alloantibodies in the patient&#39;s plasma. The autoantibody should
be removed by adsorption before further antibody identification can be achieved.
Adsorption can only be performed using pre-transfusion patient red cells. The
patient must not have been pregnant or transfused in the preceding 90 days. For
further information and testing methods, refer to the _AABB Technical Manual,
Current Edition_, or the _American Red Cross Immunohematology Methods And
Procedures_, D. Mallory, ed.

ii) If the DAT is negative, a cold autoantibody should be considered. A cold
screen tested from room temperature down to 4o C will indicate if an autologous
absorption done at 4o C will be useful to remove the autoantibody. Again, the
patient must be untransfused in the preceding 90 days.

iii) If adsorption, warm or cold, is not possible, there are alternatives.
Allogeneic warm absorption is possible using R1R1, R2R2, and rr cells. A prewarm
method may be useful to remove any cold reactivity. Prewarm methods must be used
with caution preferably after the clinically significant antibodies have been
tentatively identified. Prewarm methods have been documented to remove anti-H
activity in a Bombay phenotype and an example of anti-Vel. References on
request.

4. If all the cells tested are negative, several things must be considered:

i) Repeat the cell that gave the original positive reaction that initiated the
panel, i.e. the antibody screen test or one of the units being crossmatched.
Note where the antibody reacts - immediate spin or IAT? Was the panel tested at
the same phase the reaction occurred in?

ii) How soon after the original testing, was the panel performed? Was the sample
stored properly?

iii) Is the reactive cell double dose (from an apparent homozygous donor) for
any common antigen and is there another cell double dose (from an apparent
homozygous donor) for the same antigen that can be used to repeat the result?

iv) Will enhancement media help reveal a weak reacting alloantibody pattern,
i.e.

Enz, PEG, LISS with a longer incubation time, or polybrene?

v) If none of this adds any information about antibody specificity, you may have
an antibody directed against a low frequency antigen. While the identity of the
antibody is a puzzle, it is rarely a significant problem when looking for
compatible units of red cells for transfusion. If you have time to play with it,
use Antigen Plus to locate as many low incidence antigen positive cells as you
have listed under special antigens. If none of them react, and you still wish to
resolve the specificity, send the sample to a reference lab for crosstesting.
Most reference labs keep their unidentified lows in hopes of finding another
example.

5. If your routine test method can detect weak reacting autoantibodies at any
   phase of testing, positive antibody screen results can lead to a common panel
   result of several weak reactions with no specificity determined. Antigen Plus
   will perform exclusions based on its policy and may well exclude all common
   specificities depending on the number of reactions and phenotype of the cells
   which do not react. The technologist should follow his or her Blood Bank SOP
   for antibody identification which should address this type of panel testing
   outcome. Depending on method used, patient population and number of
   occurrences, the most common choices are likely to include:

i) Try more sensitive method if an alloantibody may be just forming or was not
stimulated in the recent past.

ii) Repeat the original test by a less sensitive method, e.g. from solid phase
testing back to tube LISS-IAT (a common approach to dealing with the very
sensitive capabilities of solid phase testing.)

iii) Seen only at immediate spin â€“ assess possible clinical significance and
drop the IS test if appropriate.

Use the prewarm method only after significant antibodies (anti-Vel, anti-PP1Pk,
anti-H in a Bombay) have been excluded.
