---
title: User Guide
layout: default
has_children: true
nav_order: 3
last_modified_date: 2021-01-04 10:42:16
---

# Antigen Plus User Guide

Copyright Â© 2020 Rowny Systems, Inc.

## Copyright and License Provisions

The ANTIGEN PLUS program is protected by the copyright laws pertaining to
computer software. Copies can be made for backup purposes only. It is illegal to
give copies to another person or duplicate the software by any other means.
Purchase of the ANTIGEN PLUS from Rowny Systems, Inc. or one of its distributors
constitutes a license to install and use the program on computers or a computer
network with multiple stations in a single laboratory facility. ANTIGEN PLUS may
not be shared by facilities in different geographical locations unless each
facility is individually licensed.

## Warranty

All warranties, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose, are hereby disclaimed. The distributor makes
no warranties with respect to the program.

## Technical Support

Rowny Systems offers free technical support and advice for Antigen Plus for one
year from the date of purchase, Monday-Friday between 9 am and 5 pm U.S. Eastern
Time at (301) 761-3106. International callers please call 001 301 761-3106.
Rowny Systems also offers technical support via Email at
_[help@antigenplus.com](mailto:help@antigenplus.com)_. All support is continued
with renewal of the annual license.

## Data Entry Support

Rowny Systems offers automated red cell panels for Antigen Plus. The panels
provided are electronically verified to match with the specification sheets
provided by the supplier. Antigen Plus assumes no responsibility for errors by
the suppliers, but will correct any such errors as soon as possible when they
are discovered.

## Liability

Rowny Systems, Inc. dba Antigen Plus and its distributors assume no
responsibility for the use of the ANTIGEN PLUS program. The licensee assumes all
responsibility for the proper use of the program including establishing
appropriate protocols and validation procedures to ensure accurate data entry.
ANTIGEN PLUS makes no decision or final recommendation on the meaning of test
results or on patient care.
